# WordPress-based Website

In order to customize the look and feel of user’s instance of the website, there exists a mechanism called the WordPress Theme. A WordPress theme is simply a collection of scripts, stylesheets and images which get combined, processed and the generated content is sent back to the client. A user can install any theme which is compatible with his or her WordPress version. There is no central body governing the quality and correctness of a theme. As theme developers are free to build them almost arbitrarily, numerous security and performance flaws occur. The WordPress Plugin is a pluggable piece of software which enhances the basic WordPress functionality, thus enabling its users to heavily modify their WordPress-based web applications and sites. Plugins are also open source and without any quality guarantees, therefore experiencing the same problems as the aforementioned themes. 

Moreover, when a user has a high-traffic website, his web delivering server is not able to keep up with all the requests resulting in a slow, unresponsive website. The reader might assume that the problems would be solved by increasing plugins quality. While the previous statement is true, it is usually not viable, mainly due to a reason that work of an experienced web developer is relatively expensive. In many cases, upgrading the server and/or getting additional one(s) is the preferred way. In our work, we are concerned with optimizing the server software first and only then examining the best practices, tips and tricks of a plugin or a theme development.